README.md, before:

# ScholarFlow: Decentralized Micro-Scholarships

## Project Overview

ScholarFlow is a revolutionary platform built on the Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) that aims to democratize access to education globally. By leveraging Bitcoin for transparent and flexible micro-financing, we connect generous donors with aspiring students worldwide.

Our mission is to break down financial barriers to learning, enabling individuals to pursue their educational goals and unlock their full potential. This initiative will foster a more educated and equitable global society, empowering countless lives through accessible knowledge.

## MVP Core Features

### 1. Donor Module

- **Simple Interface:** A page where donors can see the platform's goal.
- **BTC Donation Address:** A Bitcoin address generated by an ICP canister to receive donations (placeholder for local development).
- **Donation Confirmation:** Display of the Bitcoin transaction on the blockchain after the donation (simulated for MVP).

### 2. Student Module

- **Simplified Registration:** Students can create a basic profile (no sensitive personal information in the MVP, just an ICP and BTC wallet ID).
- **Scholarship Request:** A button to request a "micro-scholarship" (a small fixed amount, e.g., 0.00001 BTC).
- **BTC Receipt:** The functionality for the smart contract to release the Bitcoin to the student's wallet (after a manual or simulated "approval" in the MVP).

### 3. Smart Contract (Canister) on ICP

- **Fund Management:** Receive and store donated Bitcoin (simulated for MVP).
- **Release Logic:** A basic mechanism to release Bitcoin to students (simulated for MVP).
- **Transaction Log:** Store an immutable record of all donations and releases.

### 4. User Interface (Frontend)

- A clear homepage explaining the proposal.
- Separate sections for "Donors" and "Students".
- Basic display of statistics (total donated, number of students supported).
- Plug Wallet integration for ICP wallet connection.

## Technologies Used

- **Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) using dfx from dfinity:** To host the canisters (smart contracts) and the frontend.
- **Motoko:** Language for developing the canisters.
- **React & TypeScript:** For the web application's frontend.
- **Plug Wallet:** For connecting to the ICP network.
- **ICP's Native Bitcoin Integration:** To handle BTC transactions (full implementation on testnet/mainnet due to local replica limitations).

## Getting Started

Follow these steps to set up and run ScholarFlow locally:

### Prerequisites

- DFINITY Canister SDK (`dfx`)
- Node.js and npm
- Plug Wallet browser extension (for full functionality)

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/pt-icp-hub/IC-Vibe-Coding-Template-Motoko.git scholarFlowDapp
cd scholarFlowDapp
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
npm install --prefix src/frontend
```

### 3. Start the DFINITY Local Replica

```bash
dfx start --clean --background
```

### 4. Deploy the Canisters

```bash
dfx deploy
```

### 5. Access the Frontend

After successful deployment, `dfx` will provide a URL for the frontend canister. Open this URL in your browser (e.g., `http://bd3sg-teaaa-aaaaa-qaaba-cai.localhost:4943/`).

## Project Structure

```
scholarFlowDapp/
├── src/
│   ├── backend/                  # Motoko backend canister code
│   │   └── main.mo
│   ├── frontend/                 # React + TypeScript frontend code
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── App.tsx           # Main application component
│   │   │   ├── global.d.ts       # Global type declarations (e.g., for window.ic)
│   │   │   ├── services/         # Canister service layers
│   │   │   │   └── backendService.ts
│   │   │   └── views/            # Page-level components
│   │   │       └── ScholarFlowView.tsx
│   │   └── package.json
│   └── declarations/             # Auto-generated canister interfaces
├── tests/                        # Test files
├── dfx.json                      # DFINITY project configuration
├── mops.toml                     # Motoko package manager configuration
├── LICENSE                       # MIT License
└── README.md                     # This file
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Future Enhancements

Full Bitcoin integration will be implemented when deploying to a testnet or mainnet, where the Bitcoin API is fully supported by the Internet Computer network.

Commit message:

add bitcoin integration and student register

README.md, after:

# ScholarFlow: Decentralized Micro-Scholarships

## Project Overview

ScholarFlow is a revolutionary platform built on the Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) that aims to democratize access to education globally. By leveraging Bitcoin for transparent and flexible micro-financing, we connect generous donors with aspiring students worldwide.

Our mission is to break down financial barriers to learning, enabling individuals to pursue their educational goals and unlock their full potential. This initiative will foster a more educated and equitable global society, empowering countless lives through accessible knowledge.

## MVP Core Features

### 1. Donor Module

- **Simple Interface:** A page where donors can see the platform's goal.
- **BTC Donation Address:** A Bitcoin address generated by an ICP canister to receive donations (placeholder for local development).
- **Donation Confirmation:** Display of the Bitcoin transaction on the blockchain after the donation (simulated for MVP).

### 2. Student Module

- **Simplified Registration:** Students can create a basic profile (no sensitive personal information in the MVP, just an ICP and BTC wallet ID).
- **Connect Bitcoin Wallet:** Functionality for students to connect their Bitcoin wallet to the DApp.
- **Scholarship Request:** A button to request a "micro-scholarship" (a small fixed amount, e.g., 0.00001 BTC).
- **BTC Receipt:** The functionality for the smart contract to release the Bitcoin to the student's wallet (after a manual or simulated "approval" in the MVP).

### 3. Smart Contract (Canister) on ICP

- **Fund Management:** Receive and store donated Bitcoin (simulated for MVP).
- **Release Logic:** A basic mechanism to release Bitcoin to students (simulated for MVP).
- **Transaction Log:** Store an immutable record of all donations and releases.

### 4. User Interface (Frontend)

- A clear homepage explaining the proposal.
- Separate sections for "Donors" and "Students".
- Basic display of statistics (total donated, number of students supported).
- Plug Wallet integration for ICP wallet connection.

## Technologies Used

- **Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) using dfx from dfinity:** To host the canisters (smart contracts) and the frontend.
- **Motoko & Rust:** Languages for developing the canisters.
- **React & TypeScript:** For the web application's frontend.
- **Plug Wallet:** For connecting to the ICP network.
- **ICP's Native Bitcoin Integration:** To handle BTC transactions (full implementation on testnet/mainnet due to local replica limitations).

## Getting Started

Follow these steps to set up and run ScholarFlow locally:

### Prerequisites

- DFINITY Canister SDK (`dfx`)
- Node.js and npm
- Plug Wallet browser extension (for full functionality)

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Arthur-Fialho/WCHL25-ScholarFlow scholarFlowDapp
cd scholarFlowDapp
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
npm install --prefix src/frontend
```

### 3. Start the DFINITY Local Replica with Bitcoin Integration

To interact with the Bitcoin network locally, you need to start the `dfx` replica with Bitcoin integration enabled:

```bash
dfx start --clean --background --enable-bitcoin
```

### 4. Deploy the Canisters

```bash
dfx deploy
```

### 5. Access the Frontend

After successful deployment, `dfx` will provide a URL for the frontend canister. Open this URL in your browser (e.g., `http://bd3sg-teaaa-aaaaa-qaaba-cai.localhost:4943/`).

## How to Use the DApp

### For Students: Connecting Bitcoin Wallet and Requesting Scholarship

1.  **Access the DApp:** Open the frontend URL provided by `dfx deploy` in your browser.
2.  **Navigate to Student Section:** Click on the "Students" section or navigate to the relevant page.
3.  **Connect Bitcoin Wallet:** Look for a button or section to "Connect Bitcoin Wallet". Click it and follow the prompts to connect your Bitcoin wallet. This will typically involve confirming the connection in your wallet extension.
4.  **Request Scholarship:** Once your Bitcoin wallet is connected, you should see an option to "Request Micro-Scholarship" or a similar button. Click it to submit your scholarship request. For the MVP, this will trigger a simulated approval process.

### For Donors: Viewing Platform Goals and Donation Information

1.  **Access the DApp:** Open the frontend URL provided by `dfx deploy` in your browser.
2.  **Navigate to Donor Section:** Click on the "Donors" section or navigate to the relevant page.
3.  **View Donation Information:** On this page, you will see the platform's goals, a placeholder Bitcoin donation address (for local development), and simulated donation confirmations.

## Project Structure

```
scholarFlowDapp/
├── src/
│   ├── backend/                  # Motoko backend canister code
│   │   └── main.mo
│   ├── frontend/                 # React + TypeScript frontend code
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── App.tsx           # Main application component
│   │   │   ├── global.d.ts       # Global type declarations (e.g., for window.ic)
│   │   │   ├── services/         # Canister service layers
│   │   │   │   └── backendService.ts
│   │   │   └── views/            # Page-level components
│   │   │       └── ScholarFlowView.tsx
│   │   └── package.json
│   └── declarations/             # Auto-generated canister interfaces
├── tests/                        # Test files
├── dfx.json                      # DFINITY project configuration
├── mops.toml                     # Motoko package manager configuration
├── LICENSE                       # MIT License
└── README.md                     # This file
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Future Enhancements

Full Bitcoin integration will be implemented when deploying to a testnet or mainnet, where the Bitcoin API is fully supported by the Internet Computer network.
